# COVID-19
On December 31, 2019, the World Health Organization (WHO) was informed of an outbreak of “pneumonia of unknown cause” detected in Wuhan City, Hubei Province, China – the seventh-largest city in China with 11 million residents. As of January 23, there are over 800 cases of 2019-nCoV confirmed globally, including cases in at least 20 regions in China and nine countries/territories. The first reported infected individuals, some of whom showed symptoms as early as December 8, were discovered to be among stallholders from the Wuhan South China Seafood Market. Subsequently, the wet market was closed on Jan 1. The virus causing the outbreak was quickly determined to be a novel coronavirus. On January 10, gene sequencing further determined it to be the new Wuhan coronavirus, namely 2019-nCoV, a betacoronavirus, related to the Middle Eastern Respiratory Syndrome virus (MERS-CoV) and the Severe Acute Respiratory Syndrome virus (SARS - CoV). However, the mortality and transmissibility of 2019-nCoV are still unknown, and likely to vary from those of the prior referenced coronaviruses. As of 14 May, more than 4.4 million cases of COVID-19 have been reported in more than 210 countries and territories, resulting in nearly 300,000 deaths, but almost 1,660,000 recoveries.

In the first wave of the epidemic, Central China, Korea, Italy, Iran have been the countries that have the most number of cases and death. In the second wave, the US, Latin America, Russia have become the biggest infected countries. In the US, there are nearly 2 million confirmed cases.

In Vietnam, as of today, the country had, according to official statistics, suffered no deaths from the virus and had limited total infections to just 332, despite being next door to China and a popular holiday destination during the spring festival, when the coronavirus first hit the Chinese city of Wuhan. This has led many observers to suggest that the country’s pandemic control strategy could be a model for others to copy, especially for developing countries. But that is unlikely to succeed because few other countries have, or want to have, the structures of control that Vietnam possesses. 

It is no longer infected cases in the community, almost confirmed cases are from overseas citizens who have come home and are in quarantine. In other words, we can say that Vietnam has defeated the pandemic. It is not only the deserts of Vietnam’s government, but also the deserts of all Vietnamese citizens. Although the outbreak is over, we should not be caught off guard about it, because it is not over in the world. 

The interactive visualization, which illustrates the location and number of confirmed, active COVID-19 cases, deaths, and recoveries for all affected countries. It was developed to provide researchers, public health authorities, and the general public with a user-friendly tool to track the outbreak as it unfolds. Helping people understand the disease situation clearly, updating the latest news about this virus, and tracking the rise of the virus over time to see how effective anti-epidemic Vietnamese is. It can gain many valuable pieces of information to the community.
